My name is Steve, I am the head of
front end engineering at a company
called Temporal, and
was an early employee there.
And so one of my first jobs was
to get a knit on the UI, right?
And Mark had saying he had
been using CSS forever, right?
I had a brief dalliance with SAS for
the better part of the late
20 aughts early 20 teens.
Then my head mostly with a little bit of
cheating, CSS by cheating CSS I mean post
CSS right for occasional stuff because
I don't wanna write vendor prefixes.
And remember all that stuff, but
had mostly been writing
regular CSS in a lot of cases.
And I would hit get in it
I was like there's a lot I
was the only engineer on the team, right?
And I knew that trying to write all
of this CSS by hand as well as all of
the JavaScript slash TypeScript was
a little much I was like alright
let's go set up post CSS or maybe we'll
still Sass so it's been a while and
then on a whim I've been hearing
a lot of this tailwind CSS stuff.
Let's just try it out, right?
Yeah, I could always abandon it.
That was two and a half years ago.
And at this point now, we use it for
basically everything, right?
And, I mentioned that because,
there's a wide range of use cases
when you're building when you're
doing front end engineering.
Chris Collier has this blog post I
really called The Great Divide, and
the subtitle is two front-end engineers or
two front-end developers grab a beer,
they have nothing in common, right?
And there's a wide set of needs
from building an application to
building a content website.
And it's been super interesting to use
Tailwind for both and see that it's
like incredibly flexible and makes
things that used to feel really tedious.
See also media queries is what
I mean by that, very simple and
elegant and to the point where it's
I might writing sales now, right?
And so
the goal today is kind of explore that.
Right now on this slide we've got
a website where there is basically
everything we're gonna do today and we
might even add some stuff as we go along.
Probably more than we could
possibly do in a given day.
So that's kind of where I open it up for
where your interests lie we can
kind of like off road a little bit.
But we've got a pretty
robust set of challenges and
tutorials to work through here,
and so the basic plan here,
is we're gonna kind of go over the basics,
right?
Just get our sea legs get our
fundamentals out try to figure out how
exactly Tailwind works and
then we'll kind of find a lot of the.
Try to mix in some of the common
patterns like how to do some layout so
you might need a lot in your applications.
Along with a bunch of little things
that I think are just really nice and
easy to kind of just that little extra
pizzazz on whatever site you're building.
That's just gonna make it look and
feel a little bit better as well.
And hopefully,
even if you've used Tailwind,
there will be at least a few
things in there where you're like,
that's interesting, that you can
kind of play around with and see.
For the most part,
we've got everything on the site.
Tailwind has this thing,
they have their own playground,
which is play.tailwind.css.
Let's check that out real quick.
Play Tailwind CSS, and
this is basically what it looks like.
And so we've got this in place.
And it's really super cool, because it
gives you a lot of the kind of basics
in place where you've got this I-frame
situation here along with an editor.
And what's nice about it is
all of the auto complete of
the Tailwind class names is present
in there and ready for you.
It will do the kind of built in sorting,
and
all of this is available as well in,
if you use VS code.
There is official VS code plugins for
Tailwind, there's a prettier plugin
that will do a lot of the sorting
stuff that we see here as well, but
this way we all have kind of
the same environment and setup.
Good to go, and it's nice because we
get that immediate feedback loop,
of being able to see it in the browser.
And the other really cool part is,
in terms of changing our configuration and
stuff along those lines, we can do that in
this area as well, and then anything that,
if you kind of discover something really
cool and you wanna share it in the chat.
And we'll kind of add it to
the website as we go along or
if I kind of build something,
you need to see it, or want to see it.
I can kind of share it as well and
we can kind of do all of
those pieces super easily.
So it's gonna be a lot of
where the magic happens today,
along with, this site that we have here,
where you can see that.
We've got some of those playgrounds in
there as well as a bunch of various
different ways to visualize a lot of
the components that we're building.
And you can kind of see what classes
I'm using at any given point.
And I can highlight the important ones and
stuff along those lines.
So that's kind of the high level.
And we'll do everything from kind of
some of the basic styles to all of
the little nuances of working with
forms and inputs and the various states
that they can be in to doing CSS
grid layouts, and fun with Flexbox.
Cuz who doesn't like to have
fun with Flexbox, right?
So we kind of go through all
the spaces you can kinda see.
It escalates as we go along.
But like I said, getting some of those
basic fundamentals in place will
behoove us as we kind of get into
some of those more advanced pieces.